---
title: What is Q?
date: 2015-02-23 20:32:00 Z
categories:
- Common Good
author: Jill Arbini
image: "/uploads/0101_1920_800_80_c1.jpg"
redirect_from: "/2015/02/23/what-is-q/"
---

In planning for Q Commons I get asked this question a lot. So, I figured I would write a blog post about Q, my experience, and Q Commons. Visit the [Q Commons Costa Mesa site](www.qcommons.com/costamesa) for information on the next Q Commons gathering at [Wayfare HQ](www.wayfare.io).

<!-- more -->

<a href="http://qideas.org/videos/what-is-q/">This video</a> of Gabe Lyons, the founder of Q Ideas, explains what Q is about. If you can't watch the video, or even if you can, please visit <a href="http://qideas.org/about/">http://qideas.org/about/</a> to read more about it. In it he says that he founded Q because he wanted to create a place where people, especially Christian leaders in what he defines as the 7 sectors of society, can ask big questions about faith and culture and think for themselves about what the answers ought to be. In doing so, conversations start, and this brings about the best thinking possible on a number of different issues. The talks given at Q address the topics of our day and then compel people to consider a response where we can work together to advance good in our communities. In addition to the Q national gathering, there are online resources and community conversations, as well as a twice yearly local gathering called Q Commons which is hosted by Q partners around the globe.

#### MY Q EXPERIENCE

I first heard about Q in 2011 years ago after my brother attended a Q national gathering. My first question was "What is Q?" He told me that Q is for questions and Q Ideas is an organization that encourages people to ask questions and think well to advance the common good. While I thought it sounded cool, you have to understand, Jeff is a very philosophical and deep thinker, so I thought it was right up his alley. I was glad he had a good time and that was the extent of my thoughts about it.

Fast forward to the next year, when my brother invited my husband (similarly cerebral) to go with him to the Q national gathering in LA. While I spoke to him on the phone during his time at Q, he kept saying "This is awesome. You are coming next year." I spent the entire next year hearing from him about talks given at Q. Then, a year after my husband went, I found myself, in Nashville, TN with my brother, my sister-in-law, and my husband.

When I returned from Nashville, I could not stop referring to what I heard, and almost a year later I still bring up the things I heard and the impact my experience had on me in weekly conversations. It was impactful, fun, inspiring, challenging, and all around fantastic!

As with most things in life, hearing about them is informative, but experiencing them can be transformative. That is why I am beyond thrilled that Q introduced a gathering called Q Commons.

#### WHAT IS Q COMMONS?

After several years of having a national gathering, the people at Q recognized that attending the yearly national gathering was not always feasible for people around the globe to attend. So they came up with an idea for a local gathering called Q Commons. The goal of Q Commons is to allow people around the world to gather locally in their cities and experience Q without having to travel or take time off work. Q Commons enables people to gather with other leaders in their city and listen to 3 talks via video, which all Q Commons attendees across the globe view, as well as 3 local in person talks that are geared more toward the questions that people in that local community may ask or have a particular interest in. It also serves to connect leaders of various occupations and spheres of influence in the same city to form a community of local like-minded people who can keep the conversation going throughout the year. If you are intrigued at all, I highly recommend that you come to Q Commons and experience it for yourself. Join me and others in <a href="http://qideas.org/qcommons/costamesa/">Orange County at Wayfare HQ in Costa Mesa</a> as we stay curious, think well, and advance good so that we can do our part in pursuing the world's best future together.
