---
title: Self Care
date: 2017-02-24 23:28:00 Z
---

As I write this I am recovering from an episode of debilitating back pain.  I’ve had a chronic back problem on and off since being in a car accident almost 17 years ago. When I diligently do my exercises, it is so much easier to cope with. But then I stop. Why? Because there isn’t enough time.  They are boring.  I’m doing fine. Not great, but fine.  Eventually the lack of time and attention to caring for myself well results in suffering. Not just for me, but for those around me. Because when I cease to be able to operate well, it doesn’t affect just me. My husband and coworkers pick up my slack.  My kids’ lives are turned upside down. And I don’t have the physical or emotional capacity to pour much out for others.

Aside from the initial accident, this most recent flare-up is the worst it has ever been. As I’ve been reflecting, I’ve realized that ultimately I’ve put my true needs as a very low priority. Sure I enjoy the tiny indulgences like a little retail therapy or a good Netflix binge as much as the next person. But self indulgence is very different than self care. Self care is meeting needs that exist, not masking those needs by indulging in temporary fixes that provide quick and short lasting results. This obviously looks different for everyone.  In all honesty, when I say I have no time to do exercises, it really mean it will cut into my Netflix time. Also, one thing I’ve noticed this time around, is that my body is craving more sleep.  It is pretty common knowledge that when you are fighting an illness such as a cold or flu,  sleep is one of the best things to do to help your body heal. But until now, I’ve never actually considered that other types of physical and emotional stress require sleep. There’s an interesting phenomenon about sleep in our culture. It is so fascinating to me that there is such a market for various solutions to get more energy.  5 hour energy, monster drinks, and red bull, become crutches that we use to get more done, and push past the physical limits that our bodies try to indicate to us. Of course there are many other factors involved in energy levels, but the most fascinating thing is that our bodies know that we need sleep.  It is something we can try to fight, but eventually, in some form our bodies give in. 

A few (not so) fun facts. Sleep Deprivation can actually cause people to go insane. It is used as an interrogation method and a means of torture. Sleep Disorders in our culture have risen a lot in the past decade.  This is a problem. Why do we torture ourselves? 

As I’ve been reflecting on my work and the work I see other do, it has become so obvious to me that the work of a creator (and we are ALL creators of something) has many layers. It is to step into the broken places and the beautiful ones.  It is to succeed and to fail. To notice the small things and the big things. To see people for who they are not what they do or how they appear. It is create something of value for someone else. To bring goodness in some way into the life of another. At their best, creators also see themselves as someone to care for. Not in an indulgent way, but in a way that seeks the right balance between giving of oneself for the benefit of others, and caring for oneself to continue to have something to offer. The world needs us to be at peace, so we can take part in bringing peace to the world.  When viewed in this way, one can hardly argue against the value of practicing self-care. However, many may argue that they don't have the time for it or they don’t know how to start.  I’ve scoured my buddy the Internet to help give some ideas on how to start, or continue this important practice. 


The value of self-care has been well documented. What is one thing you can do (or not do) on a regular basis that will be beneficial to you? 
 
Here are some questions to consider: 
Do you need to take something out of your life?
Oftentimes, we truly do lack the time to take care of ourselves.  Sleep, Work, Sleep, Work, repeat.  If you find yourself with little time to even rest (not sleep, but rest), consider cutting something out.  This could limiting the number of shows you watch, to setting rules for yourself about social media, to evaluating your commitments and deciding on what you can let go. 

2.  Do you need to add something?
Rest and sleep are two different things.  They are both important.  And it could be that you need to add more sleep to your schedule.  But if you are sleeping enough, and still feeling run down and stressed. Consider adding something life-giving to your schedule. This is going to look very different for many people.  But I heard someone once say, “Ask yourself what you used to enjoy as a child and start by doing that,”  As I kids I loved drawing, reading, playing sports.  Right now, I’m working on just walking, so sports are out of the question, but drawing and reading are right up my alley.  Other ideas include cooking, yoga, fishing, building something, playing guitar, gardening, crossword puzzles, running, paddle boarding, surfing, bike riding, knitting, crafting, time with friends, swimming, or whatever it is you always think “I wish i had time for….”  The great news is, you are in control of your time and have the ability to make different choices to care for yourself by doing things that are life-giving. 

3. Unplug
I’m sure it is no secret that that average person uses screens for the majority of their day.  From watching TV to working on computers to scrolling through social media, we have a lot coming at us all the time.  The thought patterns that develop (or lack thereof) based on the constant presence and distraction of technology in our lives can have profound negative effects on us. The ever present existence of screens in our life leave us very little time to be alone with our real thoughts.  They distract us from each other, from ourselves, and often lead to a negative view of ourselves and our lives as we observe what others are up to on social media. I like the idea of making certain hours of the day screen free.  Or even certain days of the week where a conscious effort is made to use our phones as phones (people still make and recieve phone calls, right?) and not a miniature computer keeping us constantly bombarded with notifications, news, and how many likes we received on our last post.  In fact using screens has been linked with sleep problems and disorders. 

These are 3 ideas for how to engage in simple self care.